# Krylov Solvers for 3D Acoustic Wave Equation
##  DESCRIPTION
 This contains all the functions needed to run our basic Krylov solvers, such
 as CRMN, CGMN and their respective CARP versions. These are meant to be used
 in combination with the discrete operator generated by the 3DFreqModeling
 package, and should not work for standard Matlab sparse matrices.
 
CGMN.m
: Solves a linear system using CGMN. Supports multiple right hand sides.
  
CRMN.m
: Solves a linear system using CRMN. Supports multiple right hand sides.

FGMRES
: Solves a linear system using (flexible) GMRES solver. It is meant to be used
  in combination with a preconditioner, such as the multigrid shifted Laplacian
  preconditioner. For more information, read the documentation of the Multigrid
  package.

Other routines present in this package but that should not be called 
individually are
    dsweep      - performs a double Kaczmarz sweep. Used internally by CGMN
                  and CRMN.
    pdsweep     - performs a CARP iteration (or "parallel sweep"). This is 
                  called by CARPCG and CARPCR.                  
  
  
For the sake of compatibility, the legacy version of some of these routines is
still maintained, but will be removed in the future (to be announced). The
list of functions in the legacy version is:
 
    CARPCG_OLD  - Old routine for CGMN (original name was CARPCG). Deprecated 
                  due to the misleading name. Function call has been as well 
                  updated.
    CARPBCG     - Block CGMN. Deprecated due to the misleading name.
    pCARPCG     - Parallel CARPCG; CARPCG.m function replaces this with an 
                  updated function call
    test_pCARPCG - Validates the pCARPCG routine. It haven't been udpated to 
                  validate the new CARPCG routine as of now.
  
   CARPCG
   : The parallel version of CGMN, as proposed in [3].
   NOTE: This function **requires** the system matrix to have normalized rows. 
   The right hand side must be properly scaled as well. See demos for more 
   details.
  
   CARPCR
   : The parallel version of CRMN, as proposed in [2].
   NOTE: This function **requires** the system matrix to have normalized rows. 
   The right hand side must be properly scaled as well. See demos for more 
   details.
 
##  ON-LINE DOCUMENTATION
  The online documentation along with some demos and tests can be found at
  <https://slim.gatech.edu/SoftwareDemos/applications/Modeling/3DAcousticFreqModeling/>
  
##  COPYRIGHT
 You may use this code only under the conditions and terms of the
 license contained in the files LICENSE or COPYING provided with this
 source code. If you do not agree to these terms you may not use this
 software.
 
##  PREREQUISITES
 All prerequisites, except for MATLAB, are provided in the software
 release repositories and should be installed as necessary before using
 any of SINBAD's software.
 
##  INSTALLATION
###  Software in SLIM-release-apps (this) repository
 Follow the instructions in the INSTALLATION file (located in the home
 directory of this software repository) to install necessary
 components.

##  RUNNING
 Please, read the online documentation at
 <https://slim.gatech.edu/SoftwareDemos/applications/Modeling/3DAcousticFreqModeling/>
 for examples on how to use these functions. They are readily available from
 Matlab. You can also use "help command" for more information on the
 interface of every function. 
 
##  SUPPORT
 You may contact SLIM's developers of SINBAD software via issue tracker for this repository. We do not have resources to actively support public version of our software. However, we will try to answer the questions as much as possible.

##  REFERENCES
[1] Bjorck, A. and Elfving, T. 1979. Accelerated projection methods for 
computing pseudoinverse solutions of systems of linear equations. 
BIT 19, 145–163.

[2] Lago R.; Petrenko A.; Fang Z.; Herrmann F. 2014, Solution Of Time-Harmonic 
Wave Equation For Full-Waveform Inversion, 76th EAGE Conference & Exhibition, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands

[3] Gordon, D. and Gordon, R., CARP-CG: a robust and efficient parallel solver 
for linear systems, applied to strongly convection dominated PDEs.
Parallel Computing 36:9, Sept. 2010, 495-515.
