# Krylov Solvers for 3D Acoustic Wave Equation
##  DESCRIPTION
 This package adds the possibility of using FGMRES solver preconditioned by
 geometric multigrid solvers. The package is generic enough to allow the user 
 to build certain advanced multigrid cycles (as a combination of V cycles)
 but it provides wrappers to already built efficient multigrid schemes tailored
 specifically for the acoustic wave equation.
 
GMG_V
: Performs the most basic multigrid V cycle. The smoother and coarse correctors
  are passed as a parameter in a structure **par**. Building up the coarse 
  operator and the interpolators might be nontrivial, so we refer to 
  GMG_CGPV12_T2V and  GMG_CGPV12_N2V routines, which set up the **par** 
  structure for more information.
  
GMG_CGPV12_T2V
: Returns a function handler to a GMG_V solver with the **par** structure 
  properly set up. The choice of smoothers, interpolators and coarse correctors
  are due to [1]. This is meant to be used as a preconditioner for FGMRES. 
  This uses the shifted Laplacian operator.
  NOTE: This is meant to be used by standard 7-points finite difference
  discretization, generated by the helmholtz_3d_7p. This is **not** meant to be
  used by the 27 points schemes. Refer to GMG_CGPV12_T2V for the 27 points 
  version.

GMG_CGPV12_N2V
: Returns a function handler to a GMG_V solver with the **par** structure 
  properly set up. The choice of smoothers, interpolators and coarse correctors
  are due to [2]. This is meant to be used as a preconditioner for FGMRES. 
  This uses the shifted Laplacian operator.
  NOTE: This is meant to be used by standard 27 points discretization, generated
  by the helmholtz_3d. 
  
GMG_CGPV12_T
: A simpler version of GMG_CGPV12_T2V, using a simple V cycle without the 
  shifted Laplacian operator. Also introduced in [1], and meant to be used
  as a preconditioner for FGMRES.
  NOTE: This is meant to be used by standard 7-points finite difference
  discretization, generated by the helmholtz_3d_7p. This is **not** meant to be
  used by the 27 points schemes. 
  
Another function present in this package is the Jacobi_relax, used as a smoother
in some of the aforementioned preconditioners.
  
##  ON-LINE DOCUMENTATION
  The online documentation along with some demos and tests can be found at
  <https://slim.gatech.edu/SoftwareDemos/applications/Modeling/3DAcousticFreqModeling/>
  
##  COPYRIGHT
 You may use this code only under the conditions and terms of the
 license contained in the files LICENSE or COPYING provided with this
 source code. If you do not agree to these terms you may not use this
 software.
 
##  PREREQUISITES
 All prerequisites, except for MATLAB, are provided in the software
 release repositories and should be installed as necessary before using
 any of SINBAD's software.
 
 Notice that this packaged depends on the Krylov package in 
 /tools/solvers/Krylov and will not function properly unless the respective
 path is added to your Matlab environment.
 
##  INSTALLATION
###  Software in SLIM-release-apps (this) repository
 Follow the instructions in the INSTALLATION file (located in the home
 directory of this software repository) to install necessary
 components.

##  RUNNING
 Please, read the online documentation at
 <https://slim.gatech.edu/SoftwareDemos/applications/Modeling/3DAcousticFreqModeling/>
 for examples on how to use these functions. They are readily available from
 Matlab. You can also use "help command" for more information on the
 interface of every function. 
 
##  SUPPORT
 You may contact SLIM's developers of SINBAD software via issue tracker for this repository. We do not have resources to actively support public version of our software. However, we will try to answer the questions as much as possible.

##  REFERENCES
[1] H. Calandra, S. Gratton, X. Pinel & X. Vasseur, An improved two-grid 
preconditioner for the solution of three-dimensional Helmholtz problems in 
heterogeneous media, Numerical Linear Algebra with Applications, 20, pp. 
663-688 (2013).

[2] Lago, R., Herrmann, F. 2015, Minimal Residual Solvers for Time-Harmonic
Wave-Equation (to appear).
